If you wish to protect your invention and prevent others from utilizing it, you’ll need to go through the procedure of invention registration. Several prerequisites must be met before you may register your idea and file for legal protection.

To Be Completed Requirements Before the statutory registration of inventions.
Following all printing standards given by the United States Patent and Trademark Office is one of the conditions for filing for registration of an invention (USPTO). Another stipulation is that you relinquish your rights to publish the innovation for a set time. The waiver becomes effective after the registration of the statutory invention is published. An inventor must pay all required fees before registering an invention.

How to Register New Inventions?
When you have an idea for an invention, the first step is to write down its description. This description should be as comprehensive as possible, using pictures such as technical schematics and sketches. When you write this description, you’re taking the first step toward turning your concept into a product. You can think about the innovation in greater detail as you write the information and develop drawings, and you may be able to identify flaws or weak places that need to be corrected.

Do Some Diligence
You must do a comprehensive search of existing patents through the USPTO before proceeding with applying for patient protection. On the USPTO website, you can conduct a free internet search. Include keywords and phrases related to your concept in your search. You may see if something similar exists and is already covered by a patent by looking through the search results. You can move on to the next step of the procedure if you don’t find anything in your search.

The Procedure for Filing New Invention
The filing for patent protection is the next crucial step in registering an innovation. You can begin the procedure by visiting the USPTO website:

From the navigation menu, select “Patents,” which will take you to a submenu containing patent-related information and options.
Select “File Online in EFS-Web” from the drop-down menu. This will open a form for you to fill out to register your concept.
The USPTO will assign an officer to review your concept when you finish and submit the online application. Another person or company can file an opposing claim to your registration request within that time.
If someone objects, the claims will be reviewed by an independent arbitrator who will decide the outcome. If the objection is overruled or no one objects, your invention will be recorded, and you may be eligible for patent protection.
How Much Does It Cost to File a Patent?
The cost of filing a patent application varies. The typical cost is roughly $300, though this varies depending on the classifications chosen.

What Is a Statutory Invention Registration (SIR)?
A statutory invention registration is a method that can prevent someone else from receiving a patent, but it is not a valid patent. It is a USPTO-facilitated and permitted alternative to filing a patent application. The USPTO will use the SIR process to publish information about an invention previously the subject of a patent application. The goal of publicizing this material is to benefit the general public, and it is done at the request and permission of the inventor who would have filed for patent protection.

This procedure gives inventors a choice in patent application situations that do not go well for them. Instead of falling victim to registering an idea and filing for patent protection, the invention becomes available for public usage after going through the SIR process. The SIR process was created after the USPTO realized that an inventor might not always be able to get a patent for an invention or may choose not to pursue patent protection. SIR uses a copyright term to help place a device or process into the public domain that would otherwise be stuck in the patent application process, removing any rights to gain from its use owing to authorship privileges. Another reason to employ a SIR is the ability to change the claim of rights protected by a patent. These rights are frequently veiled behind negative phrasing, preventing others from adopting the concept without the patent holder’s consent.
https://www.patent.net.ph/
